In this first lesson we're going to be showing you how to write javascript.
So what I've got open right now is brackets.
This is the editor that I'm going to be using with in this course and this is the first tool that you're
going to need in order to write javascript and you can use any editor.
There's a lot of different editors out there.
This one is called brackets.
It's free to use it's available at bracket's I O.
It's an Adobe product and I am going to be using it within this course if you're interested in using
the same one that I'm using.
It's available at brackets.
And you can go out and download it and do the basic install and that'll get you started with an editor.
The next tool that we need to render out Javascript is a browser and for this course the browser that
I'm going to be using is chrome chrome comes with dev tools and basically with dev tools This gives
us an opportunity to write and see javascript directly within the browser.
So it's really important when it comes to editing and working with javascript and especially if you're
developing.
This is a great resource to have.
If you don't have chrome Chrome is also free to download it's available at Chrome dot com.
And if you will find out more about dev tools that's available at developer dot chrome dot com dev tools.
And in order to access dev tools.
So I'm on a Windows machine.
But if you're on a Mac it's control it's command Opt..
And a Windows machine.
It's Control shift.
And what that does is that opens up this little menu at the bottom and the main tab that we're going
to be looking out for most of this course is the console tab.
So if you do have chrome and if you're watching this video on Chrome go ahead and open up dev tools
that's installed on every version of chrome and go over to the console area of the developer tools tape
in alert and hello.
You can also do hello world if you want and close it off.
So with the alert the rounded brackets quotes and then pass yourself a message so you can do hello world
as well and hit enter and you're going to see that the browser is going to pop up.
This little message alert message to you that says Hello world.
So whatever you're typing in to here is actually what's going to get displayed here.
And this is javascript so you can actually run and write your javascript directly within your browser
and see on any web page.
Try it out.
Pause the video.
Open up your browser.
If you don't have chrome open up chrome and type in alert rounded bracket Hello world.
And that's your first Javascript code.
And the next lesson we're going to dive deeper into javascript.